Hello and welcome back to the course on Tableau.
In the previous tutorial we learned how to combine clusters and trend lines and what powerful insights
we can derive from such analysis.
And I hope that you had a chance to play around with that and really let that knowledge sink in because
indeed it is a very powerful tool that now you have in your arsenal and it's just going to be very satisfying
when you find situations in your analytics when you'll be able to apply this kind of approach or something
similar.
And today we're going to talk about saving this cluster.
So now I had had these clusters How do I actually save them to perform further analytics with them on
other sheets for example so if I want to create a new sheet how do I carry those clusters onto the sheet
as well.
Well one way of course it would be to recreate the cluster is again and in our new resolution but to
create the clusters every time is going to be quite tedious.
So there is a faster way.
All we have to do is take clusters from here hold down control and drag them into dimensions.
And so what that creates is it creates a group.
Once again I know we haven't spoken about groups for now it's just a convenient tool for us to have.
You can always learn more about groups if you decide to check out the advanced course but otherwise
religious right click and rename this group and we'll call it clusters all is discord our clusters just
so that we remember that we created this group ourselves and if we go to sheet six let's see how we
can use this group let's say I want to put it into color and then I want to put it into columns and
now I want to look at the average population per cluster.
That'll be interesting something that we were curious about previously.
So let's right click drag population into label C average and maybe let's copy that into the rows.
So here you can see right away what the result looks like orange cluster indeed has the highest average
population.
Blue has medium and red has the lowest average population.
So that's how quickly we can move our clusters to different sheets.
It's a very easy and handy way to save them as groups like that.
And another example would be if we plot our cities or this plot our state on the map and then expanded
to cities and here if we want to quickly see which cities are from where we can just take our clusters
and put them into color and then we go right away we can see how these cities where they are located
and you can select so we can gradually increase the size further or we can connect the size to something
else.
For example we can put revenue on size and add some transparency and then you can move around the colors.
So let's say we can put the red ones on top because there that we know that they're small maybe add
a border so that they look nice.
So there we go.
Now we know how to not only create clusters but also use them in our analysis and use them across different
sheets and different visualizations that we're creating.
So hopefully this knowledge will come in useful for you one day and you'll be able to perform a cluster
analytics on your data sets as well as you can see it's a very powerful feature that is integrated into
tableau.
And on that note we're going to complete the sartorial I look forward to see you next time.
And until then happy analyzing.